--- Page 12 ---
Where a practice is directed to a particular group of consumers, the ‘average
consumer’ refers to the average member of that group. This type of average
consumer is referred to in this Guidance as the ‘average targeted consumer’.
Where a group of consumers is vulnerable to a commercial practice in a way that the
trader could reasonably be expected to foresee, the ‘average consumer’ refers to the
average member of that group. Different practices, and even the same practices in
different circumstances, may have different effects depending on the type of
consumer they reach or affect. The provisions concerning vulnerable consumers are
there to ensure that traders do not unfairly affect vulnerable people, even if their
practices may not change non-vulnerable consumers’ decisions.
The average consumer is a notional construct. There is no requirement to show
evidence of actual consumers being affected by an unfair commercial practice. The
concepts are intended to help the court and the CMA (as the case may be) decide if
a practice is prohibited due to its potential impact on relevant consumers.
Average member of a vulnerable group of consumers
Where:
there is a group of consumers
the group is particularly vulnerable to a commercial practice
the trader could reasonably be expected to foresee that the group of consumers is
vulnerable to the commercial practice
then the relevant average consumer is the average member of that group.[footnote 30]
In relation to the breaches mentioned under the average consumer
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/unfair-commercial-practices-cma207/unfair-
commercial-practices#the-average-consumer), whether a commercial practice is unfair
hinges on whether that vulnerability is likely to cause an average member of the
group to take a transactional decision that they would not have taken otherwise.
This protects consumers who may be particularly vulnerable either to a commercial
practice (for example, to a particular selling technique or techniques) or because of
the underlying product (namely, where the product may be only or mainly of interest
to the vulnerable group).[footnote 31]
A commercial practice will be assessed from the perspective of an average member
of that group whose vulnerability the trader could reasonably be expected to foresee.
The test is objective. It is not necessary that the trader actually foresees the effect (or
likely effect) on vulnerable consumers, only that they could reasonably have been
expected to do so.
Consumers are treated as vulnerable to a practice or because of the underlying
product within the meaning of the UCP provisions, if (among other things) they are
vulnerable because of age, physical or mental health, credulity or the circumstances
they are in.[footnote 32]
Age
It may be appropriate to consider a practice from the perspective of an older or
younger consumer. For example, the elderly might be particularly vulnerable to

