--- Page 8 ---
conduct. It does not matter whether the acts or omissions happen before, during or
after the promotion or supply in question.[footnote 17] Therefore, commercial practices
include advertising, the sale and supply of products and post-contractual matters,
such as after-sales services and debt collection.
The act or omission must ‘relate to’ the promotion or supply of a product to or by a
consumer. As a general rule of thumb, if a trader supplies products or promotes
them, for example by providing information about them on a website, they will need
to check they are complying with the UCP provisions. This is the case even if they
are not selling directly to consumers themselves.
A commercial practice includes any act or omission by a trader relating to the
promotion or supply of another trader’s product to a consumer. For example, the
activities of online platforms that facilitate traders to promote or supply products to or
by consumers amount to commercial practices. They are within the scope of the UCP
provisions.
Commercial practices include practices by a trader that enable private individuals
(namely, consumers) to provide products to that trader, for example where a trader
purchases a used car or an antique from a consumer, or asks the consumer to make
a donation of unwanted clothes. They also include cases where a trader enables
consumers to provide their products to another person, for example, where an online
marketplace is used for consumer-to-consumer transactions.
There can be several traders involved in the promotion or supply of a product to and
from consumers, such as manufacturers, retailers, marketing professionals, brand
representatives etc. The practices of each of these traders would be covered by the
UCP provisions. When deciding whether or not to investigate a suspected breach of
the UCP provisions, it will be relevant to consider which is the appropriate party to
investigate as well as which party is best placed to remedy the issue.
What commercial practices fall in and out of scope of the
UCP  provisions?
Examples of practices not covered by the UCP provisions
Business-to-business practices with no potential to affect consumers
A trader sells specialist tractor parts to businesses only. As consumers do not buy
the trader’s products, the trader does not need to consider compliance with the
UCP provisions. The trader should however consider the Business Protection
from Misleading Marketing Regulations 2008.[footnote 18]
A trader sells mattresses to hotels which make no specific claims on their
websites in respect of the mattresses. As the trader is selling to another
business, and provided no claims are made to consumers about the mattress
product, the trader does not need to consider compliance with the UCP
provisions. The trader should consider the Business Protection from Misleading

