--- Page 7 ---
done in the course of business. Someone who purchases items in order to resell
them would be likely to fall within the definition. An individual person selling
unwanted goods on the internet from time to time, would not be likely to fall within
this definition
organisations which have charitable or ethical goals when they engage in
commercial activities towards consumers. This could include things like selling
clothes in a charity shop or asking for donations
public bodies when they engage in commercial transactions with consumers, for
example charging a fee to get a passport or renew a driving licence
Whether or not a person is a trader is assessed on a case-by-case basis. When
deciding if a person is acting as a trader, a number of factors are likely to be relevant.
These include whether the activity is being carried out for profit, the number and
frequency of transactions, and the time between the purchase and sale of products.
A person may be a trader in some transactions and a consumer in other transactions.
What is a commercial practice?
A commercial practice is an act or omission by a trader relating to the promotion or
supply of either:
the trader’s product to a consumer
another trader’s product to a consumer
a consumer’s product to the trader or another person[footnote 16]
The definition of product covers both physical and intangible things, including
goods (including immovable property, rights and obligations), services and digital
content. The concept of product includes:
physical items, such as a pencil or a car
digital content, such as music purchased online
services, such as a right to use a caravan for a certain period
immovable property, such as the sale or lease of land to consumers
intangible rights such as cancellation or cashback options
credit rights, such as debt collection and payment demands, such as payments
demanded from a consumer by a trader in settlement of actual or purported
liabilities
membership rights, such as membership of a club
Any act or omission by a trader relating to the promotion or supply of a product to or
by consumers could be a commercial practice.  A commercial practice is each single
act or omission, whether or not these are repeated or form part of a course of

