--- Page 3 ---
Overview
The Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (DMCC Act) contains
provisions to protect consumers from unfair trading.[footnote 1] These provisions
replace and update the existing Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008 (CPUTRs),[footnote 2] with some changes.[footnote 3]
These provisions of the DMCC Act apply to commercial practices which happen from
6 April 2025 onwards. They maintain much of the scope and effect of the previous
law. Traders can generally expect the same or similar requirements and prohibitions
to apply to their commercial practices as under the previous regulations and
consumers can expect a similar level of protection. The DMCC Act also includes
some new or more detailed prohibitions of practices relating to fake consumer
reviews[footnote 4] and ‘drip pricing’.[footnote 5]
This Guidance aims to help traders to comply with the unfair commercial practices
provisions in the DMCC Act.[footnote 6] It will also be of use to legal advisers, enforcers
and consumer advisers in understanding what actions are prohibited.[footnote 7]
This Guidance updates and replaces Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations: OFT1008 (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/consumer-protection-
from-unfair-trading-regulations-traders).
Who do the UCP  provisions apply to and what do they
prohibit?
The UCP provisions apply to the commercial dealings that businesses, referred to in
the UCP provisions as ‘traders’, have with consumers. Such dealings are called
‘commercial practices’. They include anything traders do that could in some way
affect consumers and the decisions they take. Chapter 2 of this Guidance explains
core concepts of the UCP provisions – ‘trader’, ‘commercial practices’, ‘consumer’,
‘average consumer’ and ‘transactional decisions’.
A person is a ‘trader’ if they conduct activities relating to their business or on behalf
of another person’s business. The UCP provisions apply to traders’ commercial
practices if they (for example):
supply their own products to consumers
promote or supply another trader’s products to consumers
buy products from consumers
help consumers to sell products to others, including to other consumers
The UCP provisions prohibit unfair commercial practices. These are practices which
involve a trader misleading consumers, behaving aggressively, or otherwise acting
unfairly towards consumers.

